[docs] New k8s reference arch guide. (#5528)
hashicorp/consul: website/source/docs/guides/kubernetes-reference.html.md

--- 
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Kubernetes Consul Reference Architecture"
sidebar_current: "docs-guides-k8s-reference-architecture"
description: |-
  This document provides recommended practices and a reference architecture. 
---

# Consul and Kubernetes Reference Architecture

Preparing your Kubernetes cluster to successfully deploy and run Consul is an
important first step in your production deployment process. In this guide you

> will prepare your Kubernetes cluster, independent of its underlying platform

Reviewer: nit: this sentence reads a little strangely to me. At first I thought it should be "independently" but that's not quite right either. Maybe just a rephrase:

> In this guide you will prepare a Kubernetes cluster than may be running on any platform (AKS, EKS, GKE, etc). However...

Note also - should be GKE to match the Kube-specific offering names for other clouds GCP ~= AWS ~= Azure while the other initialisms listed were their specific Kube offerings.

Author: Independently does stick out a bit here, I will update it.

> will prepare your Kubernetes cluster, independent of its underlying platform

Author: ```suggestion
will prepare your Kubernetes cluster, that can be running on any platform
```

> (AKS, EKS, GCP, etc). However, we will call out cloud specific differences when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(AKS, EKS, GKE, etc). However, we will call out cloud specific differences when
```

For consistency, per Paul's comment.

applicable. Before starting this guide you should have experience with
Kubernetes, and have `kubectl` and helm configured locally. 

By the end of this guide, you will be able to select the right resource limits
for Consul pods, select the Consul datacenter design that meets your use case,
and understand the minimum networking requirements. 

## Infrastructure Requirements

Consul server agents are responsible for the cluster state, responding to RPC
queries, and processing all write operations. Since the Consul servers are
highly active and are responsible for maintaining the cluster state, server

> sizing is critical for the overall performance efficiency and health of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sizing is critical for the overall performance, efficiency, and health of the
```

Consul cluster. Review the [Consul Reference

> Architecture](/advanced/day-1-operations/reference-architecture#consul-servers)

Reviewer 3: In the documentation, this link will need to be absolute.

Author: Since this will be on Learn, this will be ok.

guide for sizing recommendations for small and large Consul datacenters. 

The CPU and memory recommendations can be used when you select the resources
limits for the Consul pods. The disk recommendations can also be used when
selecting the resources limits and configuring persistent volumes. You will

> need to set both `limits` and `required` in the Helm chart. Below is an example

Reviewer: should `required` be `requests`? Based on example below...

Author: Totally!

> need to set both `limits` and `required` in the Helm chart. Below is an example

Author: ```suggestion
need to set both `limits` and `requests` in the Helm chart. Below is an example
```

Helm chart for a Consul server in a large environment.

```yaml 
server 
  resources: | 
    requests: 
      memory: "32Gi" 
      cpu: "4" 
      disk: "50Gi"

>    limits: 

Reviewer 2: This and the following three lines seem to be missing a leading space (they should line up with `requests` above).

     memory: "32Gi"
     cpu: "4" 
     disk: "50Gi" 
```

You should also set [resource limits for Consul
clients](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm.html#v-client-resources),
so that the client pods do not unexpectedly consume more resources than
expected. 

[Persistent
volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) (PV)
allow you to have a fixed disk location for the Consul data. This ensures that
if a Consul server is lost, the data will not be lost. This is an important
feature of Kubernetes, but may take some additional configuration. If you are
running Kubernetes on one of the major cloud platforms, persistent volumes

> should already be configured; be sure to read their documentation for more

Author: ```suggestion
should already be configured for you; be sure to read their documentation for more
```

> should already be configured, be sure to read their documentation for more

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
should already be configured; be sure to read their documentation for more
```

> should already be configured; be sure to read their documentation for more

Reviewer: "should already be configured" seems ambiguous. Do you mean _the operator_ should have already configured them, or that the cloud provider should have done it magically (that's new to me) or something else like the Helm chart will do it automatically later?

Reviewer 2: Most managed Kubernetes services already have a default storage class enabled for persistent volumes. Usually this takes advantage of their cloud storage option.

For example, "GKE creates a default StorageClass for you which uses the standard persistent disk type" from https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/persistent-volumes

details. In addition to setting up the PV resource in Kubernetes, you will need

> to map the Consul server to that volume with the [storage class

Reviewer 2: This is only necessary if the Kubernetes cluster doesn't have a default storage type for persistent volumes.

Author: "you may need to". also need to remove the "in addition". change PV to persistent volumes.

parameter](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm.html#v-server-storageclass).

> Finally, you will need to enable RBAC on your Kubernetes cluster. Review

Reviewer 2: This reads as "Review Kubernetes RBAC, AWS, GCP and Azure." Seems like it's missing a word or two.

Author: K8s RBAC should stand on its own and then also provider specific docs.

[Kubernetes
RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/),
[AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managing-auth.html),
[GCP](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/role-based-access-control),
and
[Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-create).

> In Azure, RBAC is enabled by default . 

Author: ```suggestion
In Azure, RBAC is enabled by default. 
```

## Datacenter Design 

> There are many configurations for running Consul with Kubernetes. In this guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many possible configurations for running Consul with Kubernetes. In this guide
```

we will cover three of the most common.

> 1. Consul agents can be solely deployed within kubernetes.  

Author: ```suggestion
1. Consul agents can be solely deployed within Kubernetes.  
```

1. Consul servers

> can be deployed outside of kubernetes and clients inside of Kubernetes.  

Reviewer: nit: do we care about capitalising "Kubernetes" consistently?

Author: Yes, we should definitely capitalize Kubernetes! Good catch.

> can be deployed outside of kubernetes and clients inside of Kubernetes.  

Author: ```suggestion
can be deployed outside of Kubernetes and clients inside of Kubernetes.  
```

1. Multiple Consul datacenters with agents inside and outside of Kubernetes.  

> Review the Kubernetes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Review the Consul Kubernetes-specific
```

[documentation](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/index.html#use-cases)
for additional use case information. 

Since all three use cases will also need catalog sync, review the

> implementation details for catalog sync.  

Reviewer: Should we link to those? I'm not sure if you are referencing a later section here or separate docs.

Reviewer 2: Yep, a link would be good: https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/service-sync.html

> implementation details for catalog sync.  

Author: ```suggestion
implementation [details for catalog sync](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/service-sync.html).  
```

### Consul Datacenter Deployed in Kubernetes 

Deploying a Consul cluster, servers and clients, in Kubernetes can be done with
the official [Helm
chart](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm.html#using-the-helm-chart).
This configuration is useful for managing services within Kubernetes and is
common for users who do not already have a production Consul datacenter.

![Reference Diagram](/assets/images/k8s-consul-simple.png "Consul in Kubernetes Reference Diagram")

The Consul datacenter in Kubernetes will function the same as a platform

> independent Consul datacenter. Agents will communicate over LAN Gossip, servers

Reviewer: I'd maybe phrase that as "function the same as a Consul cluster deployed on VMs or bare metal servers". To me this phrasing makes it sound kind of like a "platform-independent Consul datacenter" is a specific design pattern or thing.
```suggestion
independent Consul datacenter. Agents will communicate over LAN gossip, servers
```

Author: Updates made!

> will participate in the Raft consensus and quorum, and client requests will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will participate in the Raft consensus, and client requests will be
```

> forwarded to the leading server with the RPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
forwarded to the servers via RPCs.
```

### Consul Datacenter with a Kubernetes Cluster

To use an existing Consul cluster to manage services in Kubernetes, Consul

> clients can be deployed within the Kubernetes cluster. This will also allow the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clients can be deployed within the Kubernetes cluster. This will also allow
```

> Kubernetes services to be synced to Consul. This design allows Consul tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes-defined services to be synced to Consul. This design allows Consul tools
```
Maybe? Just trying to make it clear that it is the service's defined within Kube that are synced not just the actual services like API server and etcd that make up Kubernetes.

such as envconsul, consul-template, and more to work on Kubernetes. It will
also register each Kubernetes node with the Consul catalog for full visibility

> into your infrastructure.

Reviewer: Catalog sync doesn't register Kube nodes. Suggest we remove the last sentence. Agent's register themselves the normal way.

Reviewer 2: Agree, we don't directly register Kubernetes nodes. We have some visibility into them because clients are deployed as a daemonset (one per Kube node), but it's a side effect.

Author: Sounds good! I will remove the last sentence.

![Reference Diagram](/assets/images/k8s-cluster-consul-datacenter.png "Consul and Kubernetes Reference Diagram")

This type of deployment in Kubernetes can also be set up with the official Helm
chart.

### Multiple Consul Clusters with a Kubernetes Cluster

Consul clusters in different datacenters running the same service can be joined
by WAN links. The clusters can operate independently and only communicate over
the WAN. This type datacenter design is detailed in the [Reference Architecture

> guide](/advanced/day-1-operations/reference-architecture#multiple-datacenters).

Reviewer 3: Same comment about this needing to be absolute in the docs. Maybe worth putting a link list at the end of the docs and referencing them in multiple places so that if a link is broken there's only one spot to fix it

In this setup, you can have a Consul cluster running outside of Kubernetes and
a Consul cluster running inside of Kubernetes. 

### Catalog Sync

To use catalog sync, you must enable it in the [Helm
chart](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm.html#v-synccatalog).
Catalog sync allows you to sync services between Consul and Kubernetes. The

> sync can be unidirectional, in either direction, or bidirectional. Read the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sync can be unidirectional in either direction or bidirectional. Read the
```

[documentation](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/service-sync.html) to
learn more about the configuration. 

Services synced from Kubernetes to Consul will be discoverable, like any other
service within the Consul datacenter. Read more in the [network
connectivity](#networking-connectivity) section to learn more about related
Kubernetes configuration. Services synced from Consul to Kubernetes will be
discoverable with the built-in Kubernetes DNS once a [Consul stub
domain](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/dns.html) is deployed. When
bidirectional catalog sync is enabled, it will behave like the two
unidirectional setups. 

## Networking Connectivity 

When running Consul inside Kubernetes as a pod, the Consul servers will be
automatically configured with the appropriate addresses. However, when running
Consul servers outside of the Kubernetes cluster and clients inside Kubernetes
as pods, there are additional [networking

> considerations](/consul/advanced/day-1-operations/reference-architecture#network-connectivity).

Reviewer 3: Link from docs to guides should be absolute

Author: This will be guide to guide.

### Network Connectivity for Services

When using Consul catalog sync, to sync Kubernetes services to Consul, you will
need to ensure the Kubernetes services are supported [service
types](https://www.consul.io/docs/platform/k8s/service-sync.html#kubernetes-service-types)
and configure correctly in Kubernetes. If the service is configured correctly,

> it will be discoverable by Consul like any other service in the datacenter. 

Reviewer 2: This is technically correct-- k8s services will be discoverable, but one of the things missing here is that external Consul services will not be able to connect to these k8s services unless those k8s services are routable from outside the k8s cluster. Certain types of k8s services do this automatically, but not all of them (i.e. ClusterIP).

There needs to be a warning about this-- that the user has figured out the required networking to connect to things running in k8s.

Author: Add a warning box: "~> Warning: You are responsible for ensuring that external services can communicate with services deployed in the Kubernetes cluster. For example, `ClusterIP` type services may not be directly accessible by IP address from outside the Kubernetes cluster for some Kubernetes configurations. "

### Network Security

Finally, you should consider securing your Consul datacenter with

> [ACLs](bootrapping). ACLs should be used with [Consul

Reviewer 3: Link from docs to guides should be absolute

Author: This will be guide to guide

> [ACLs](bootrapping). ACLs should be used with [Consul

Author: ```suggestion
[ACLs](/consul/advanced/day-1-operations/production-acls). ACLs should be used with [Consul
```
